RESUME
Siva Prasad Patnayakuni
Mobile: +91-9000666932 Email id: Sivaprasad.Patnayakuni@gmail.com
Exploring
An increasingly challenging position, where ‘proven critical product / solution Delivery &
Program/Project management’ will be operative value addition to maximize organizational strategic
growth.
Professional profile
Analytical and effective Manager with successful track of ~15 years (in Delivery, Project & Program
Management) and experienced in end to end product/solution development in both Mobile &
Embedded technologies. Vast experienced in driving multiple, large / complex, multi-track engagements
across global locations. Travelled and have work experience in Italy, Germany, Sweden and Finland.
Involved in development of right from proof of concept to complete software life cycle development of
requirements capture/analysis, design, development, testing and customer acceptance activities.
Experienced in writing proposals for customer RFP/RFQ’s, project cost estimation, budget tracking,
risk mitigation and on time delivery with customer satisfaction.
Proven track record in competency development and delivered projects in Linux, Android, Maemo,
QT, Symbian/60, EMP, Nucleus RTOS using C & C++ languages.
Handled a team of 100+ engineers and delivered the projects to various European and APAC OEM’S,
Chipset manufactures. Experienced in projects/programs transition to offshore and setting up ODC’s
for customers.
Experience summary
 Customer Account Manager, One of Telecom R&D services company, Hyderabad – 31st Jan’ 2011 to till
date.
 Service Area Manager/Delivery Manager, Tieto Telecom R&D services India Pvt Ltd (formerly known
as Fortuna Technologies Pvt Ltd) – 17th Jul’ 2006 to 28th Jan’ 2011.
 Project Leader, Navionics Engineering Pvt Ltd – 5th Dec’ 2001 to 14th Jul’ 2006.
 Software Engineer, Citation Softech Ltd – 1st Nov’ 1999 to 30th Nov’ 2001.
Education
 Master of Computer Applications, 1999 from Osmania University.

Technological Exposure
Programming Languages
RTO’s
Platforms
Tools
Source control tools
Telecom
Design Pattern
Protocols
IDE

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

C, C++, Java, J2ME, Shell Programming
Embedded Linux, Nucleus
Android, Maemo, Qt, Symbian/S60 and EMP
Spider, GDB, JTAG
Visual SourceSafe, SVN
3G, SIP, Presence Information, LBS, GSM, GPRS, UMTS
Object Oriented Design
TCP/IP, UDP, NMEA
Microsoft Visual C++ 6.0, Eclipse and KDE

Processes Experience:




Well versed with Agile/SCRUM and Water fall models.
Practiced CMM 5 KPA’s and a member of TCM.
Internal auditor for ISO 9001:2000.

Trainings








Leadership Program by Edward Smedje.
First Line Manager training by Mercuri Internation.
Pre sales Training in Tieto.
Managerial Effectiveness, Management of creativity and Innovation.
Responsible Leadership and Team Effectiveness.
Communication skills, Presentation and Interpersonal Effectiveness.
TERP tool for Project Accounting and Resource Planning.

Career Mile Stones
I.

Feb’2011 to till date:
Customer Account Manager @ One of Telecom R&D services company, Hyderabad

 Setting up of 3 ODC’s for Qualcomm.
 Competency development and ramping of technical teams in Android, Linux (Device drivers &
Target integration).
 VTAT Tool development and customized to different customers needs.
 Delivered adaptive text solutions and Navigations solution on Android & Windows platforms.
 Currently handling 4 customer accounts and exploring new customer business accounts.
 Presales activity and working for Chipset manufactures and OEM/ODM’s.

 Customers point of contact and negotiating the contracts.
 Prototyping new ideas/solutions and showcase to customers.
 Initiated, driven and enhanced Project & Process management capability, CoE in accomplishing
persistent & predictable delivery performance leveraging consistent Customer delight, leading to
potential account mining.
 Coaching the project managers and leads.
 Quality process implementation.
 Responsible for P&L of customer accounts.
 Strategy & implementation.
II.

Oct’ 2009 to Jan’ 2011:
Service Area Manager/Delivery Manager @ Tieto Telecom R&D services India Pvt Ltd

 Delivery Manager for Mobile Devices, Tieto Telecom R&D, India and handled team of 100+ engineers.
 ODC setup for Nokia, ST – Ericsson & Sharp customers.
 Ramp up the teams in Android, Linux (Low level & middleware), Maemo, QT, Symbian/S60 and
J2ME/Java.
 Driven multiple projects across locations and capture potential risks, follow through mitigation plan
and collaborating with other units in execution & aligning with client expectations and make sure
Delivery is leveraging value add.
 Delivered projects like Messaging, Connectivity, Unified communication, QT creator plug-ins, Test
automation etc.
 Reviewing the projects delivery quality and taking care of improvements.
 Involving in steering group meetings.
 Projects/Programs transition from on-site to off-shore.
 Mentoring/coaching Line managers and people management.
 Established capability development team and ensuring project execution capability & quality in place
across projects.
 Responsible for P&L and involved in making and controlling “Standard Cost”.
 Strategy & decision making and implementation.
 Reviewing market conditions along with sales team and participating in Pre-sales activity.

III.

Jan’ 2009 to Sep’ 2009:
Line Manager @ Tieto Telecom R&D services India Pvt Ltd

 Started new project accounts with Nokia – Mumbai & LGSI.
 Delivered “Nokia Money” program in J2ME platform.
 Delivered “chatting solution” & integrated “Clutter” open source graphics in Android platform.

 Developed solutions like “Media Center”, “Multimedia framework”, “Linux porting on TI- OMAP”,
“RMA with Live Video” etc using Maemo/qt platforms.
 Maemo/Meego & QT competency team ramp-up.
 Linux offering development and developing solutions as pre-sales activity.
 Also taken care of Symbian/S60 team ramp up and developed solutions like “Telephony adaptation
layer on Ericsson platform”, “Active Idle screen”, “Search engine”, “Messaging” etc.
 Conducted “Technology road shows” at customer premises and demonstrates the team technical
capabilities.
IV.

Jul’ 2006 to Dec’ 2008:
Project Manager @ Tieto Telecom R&D services India Pvt Ltd

 Implemented 3G mobile features like VoIP call, Video telephone calls, text messaging, file transfer
using SIP protocol via IMS server.
 Supporting Presence information and capabilities of the buddies.
 Active Phone Book implementation.
 Push To Talk feature is enabled as per customer needs.
 Multi party calls.
 Project management activities like creating PMP, MPP, team & customer meetings, quality measure
and delivery responsibilities.
V.

Oct’ 2004 to Jun’ 2006:
Project Leader @ Navionics Engineering Pvt Ltd

 Involved in System requirement collections, prototyping, developing and delivering Navigation
solutions for various OEMs.
 Integrating of 3rd party Fish Finder device within Navionics solution.
 Developed and supported geocore libraries to various OEMs.
 Profiling & improving the project deliverables Quality.
 Maintaining configuration system and bug tracking tools.
 Implemented ISO 9001:2000 & CMM 5 level KPI practices.
 Leading the team technically & people management.
VI.

Dec’ 2001 to Sep’ 2004:
Team Lead @ Navionics Engineering Pvt Ltd

 Porting of application which runs on Nucleus RTOS and ARM 7 to E-Linux and ARM 9 platform.
 Geocore libraries development to supported OEM’s in developing their own plotter applications.






VII.

Implementing navigation features along with cartography and echo sounder.
Using GPS signals and implementing auto pilot feature.
Supports new xf2 format of Navionics cartography data.
Presentation library toolkit development to change the look and feel.
Maintenance of plotters by fixing the bugs and adding the new features.
Nov’ 1999 to Nov’ 2001:
Software Engineer @ Citation Softech Ltd

 Digitization of the images.
 Image processing techniques using various filters, morphing scaling, edge detection etc.
 Passing the images through low and high class filters to decrease the pixel resolution.
 Zooming the images using Pivot algorithms
Personal Details
Born
Languages conversant
Passport Number
Visas

:
:
:
:

13th July’ 1976
English, Hindi and Telugu
G7036754 Valid up to: 2017
B1 visa – USA valid till 2021

