KARTHIK RACHAPUDI

Mobile: 7569408130

E-mail: rachapudikarthik@gmail.com

An accomplished Software Engineer specialized in Object-Oriented
Programming with extensive experience in the Life Cycle of Software
Design Process especially in Requirement Gathering, Design, Development,
and Build.

CAREER OBJECTIVE

To utilize my Software Development skills and excel in a challenging and
a leading edge organization which provides opportunities for career
growth and innovation.

                    

PROFESSIONAL SYNOPSIS



 4 years of experience in IT field and skill set includes Core Java,
JAVA-J2EE, JSP,   Ajax, Jquery, Adobe Flex, Hibernate Framework, Spring
Framework, Struts Framework, MySQL6, Oracle10g.

Played an active role in development and enhancement of various
applications using Java, J2EE  Frameworks.

Exposed to software development life cycle including requirement
analysis, program design and development.	

Strong Problem Solving and Technical Skills coupled with confident
decision making for enabling effective solutions leading to high
customer satisfaction as well as low operational cost.

TECHNICAL EXPERTISE



Infosys Technical Certification for Java Developer.

Programming Languages	Java-J2EE, Flex, C, SQL, PL/SQL.

Framework			Hibernate 3.0, Struts2, Spring3, Axis2 for Webservice

Databases			Oracle 10g, MySQL 6.

Web Technologies		HTML, JSP, JSF, Flex, Ajax, JQuery, Dojo.

Servers                                        Weblogic 8, Tomcat-7,
JBoss, Websphere App Server 6

Other Utilities			Eclipse, Adobe Flash Builder. Toad for Oracle 9.0,

                                                    Microsoft VSS,
Perforce, SVN, AquaStudio , RAD 7.5 .

DOMAIN EXPERTISE

Infosys Certification for Capital Market and Securities.

Bank of America’s Internal Certifications.

PROFFESIONAL DETAILS



Infosys Technologies Limited                         November 2009 –
February 2013

Company Brief: 

Infosys is a global management consulting, technology services and
outsourcing company. Infosys defines, designs and delivers
technology-enabled business solutions for Global 2000 companies. Infosys
also provides a complete range of services by leveraging our domain and
business expertise and  HYPERLINK
"http://www.infosys.com/about/alliances/pages/index.aspx" \o "strategic
alliances"  strategic alliances  with leading technology providers.

Project-I Description: 

Client: Bank of America.                                  August 2010-
September 2011

Played an active role in the development of an enterprise application
which monitors and reports performance of the bank in different areas
and provides input to the business users in re-investment strategies.

Environment/Technology/Database/Server: Java, Hibernate 3.0, Spring3,
Flex 4, Oracle 10g, JBoss4.

	

Tools: Eclipse, Adobe Flash Builder, Rational Rose, Toad for Oracle 9.0,
Microsoft VSS.

Project-II Description:

Client: Bank of America.                                   September
2011 – March 2012

Played an active role in the development of an enterprise application
which is used for management of confidential reports.                   
                                       

Environment/Technology/Database/Server: JAVA-J2EE, Struts2, JSP, JDBC,
Oracle, Weblogic server.

Tools: Eclipse, Toad for Oracle, Microsoft VSS.

Project-III Description:

Client: Bank of America.                                          April
2012- February 2013

Played an active role in the development of an enterprise application
that on-boards individuals and legal entities to the system so that they
can do business with the bank.

Environment/Technology/Database/Server: Java, Spring, Struts2, JSP,
AJax, Oracle 10g.

Tools: Eclipse, Toad for Oracle 9.0, Perforce, JBoss.

Cognizant Technologies Solution                                         
        February 2013 - Till Date

Company Brief: 

Cognizant is a global management consulting, technology services and
outsourcing company. Cognizant defines, designs and delivers
technology-enabled business solutions for Global 2000 companies.
Cognizant also provides a complete range of services by leveraging our
domain and business expertise and  HYPERLINK
"http://www.infosys.com/about/alliances/pages/index.aspx" \o "strategic
alliances"  strategic alliances  with leading technology providers.

Project-I Description: 

Client: American Express.                                               
 March 2013- December 2013

Developed an enterprise application for project management operations.

Environment/Technology/Database/Server: Core Java, Hibernate 3.0,
Spring3, Struts 2.0, JSP, MySQL 6, Ajax, JQuery, Dojo, JSON,
Webservices(Java), LDAP Authentication.

Tools: Eclipse, Aqua Studio for MySQL-6, SVN.

Project-II Description: 

Client: American Express.                                               
 March 2013- December 2013

Played an active role in the development of an enterprise application
that personalizes offers for an american express card user.

Environment/Technology/Database/Server: Java, Spring, JSP, Oracle 10g,
IBM DB2, X-Query, Drools, JSON, Webservices(Java).

Tools: Eclipse, Toad for Oracle 9.0, SVN, Websphere Application Server
6.1, Aqua Studio for DB2.

 Roles/ Responsibilities: 

Requirement Analysis and Use case Discussion

Prepared HLDs and LLDs for the assigned Modules.

Development of the assigned modules.

Prepared UTPs and ITPs for the Assigned Modules.

Fixed the Bugs of the respective modules.

Value Additions: 

	

1. Optimized the process and minimized the Cost for the Client.

2. Handled crisis situation effectively.

3. Improved the Performance of the Application. 

4. Worked as release anchor.

Wipro Infotech                                                          
                      December 2013 - Till Date

Company Brief: 

Wipro is a global management consulting, technology services and
outsourcing company. Wipro defines, designs and delivers
technology-enabled business solutions for Global 2000 companies. Wipro
also provides a complete range of services by leveraging our domain and
business expertise and  HYPERLINK
"http://www.infosys.com/about/alliances/pages/index.aspx" \o "strategic
alliances"  strategic alliances  with leading technology providers.

Project-I Description: 

Client: Al Ansari Exchange                                            
December 2013- Till Date

Played an actie role in the deelopment of an Enterprise application
which is used for transferring funds from one agent to another.

Environment/Technology/Database/Server: Core Java, Hibernate 3.0, Struts
2.0, JSP, Oracle 10g, Ajax, JQuery, Webservices (Axis2 – Service
Producing and Service Consuming).

Tools: Eclipse, Oracle SQL Developer, SVN.

Training Description: 

Duration: November 2009 – May 2010.

Undergone Extensive Training at Infosys Global Education Centre in
Mysore.

The Training Includes Generic Training, Intermediate Training and Stream
Training with Extensive Training on JAVA/JPA/JSF.

Trained at Infosys Leadership Institute on Various Soft Skills.

Worked on Projects which involve complete Software Development Life
Cycle and includes requirement gathering, analysis, design, development,
unit testing and integration testing of modules.

Strengths

A team player with strong analytical, reasoning, problem solving &
management abilities.

Driven to learn and apply new ideas and technologies.

Enthusiastic, Creative and willing to shoulder increased
responsibilities.

Ability to adapt quickly to changing environment.

Experience in prioritizing short time and long time goals.

EDUCATIONAL DETAILS

Pre Engineering:

Examination	Year	Institution	%Marks secured	Class



SSC	

2003	YMK High School, Adoni	

80.5	

1st 





       HSC	

2005	Viswanarayana Junior College, Adoni	

88.2	

1st 





Engineering: B.E in Electrical and Electronics engineering from NBKR
Institute of Science and Technolgy, Vidyanagar



Percentage marks secured in BTech	

65.20%



Personal DetailsETAIL



Date of Birth		: 	13 February 1988

Linguistic Proficiency	:	English, Hindi, Telugu and Kannada.

Notice Period                        :            1 month (Max &
Negotiable)

Declaration:

I hereby declare that the above information is true to the best of my
knowledge & belief.

Date and Place:                                                         
                                 

Karthik Rachapudi

	

	Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES  5 

