ANKIT YADAV
Hyderabad +91-8376067624unkeith_91@yahoo.com
OBJECTIVE
Computer Science graduate seeking a challenging software engineering position in a fast paced and progressive
organization that provides opportunities to apply my technical skills and abilities.
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Programming Languages
Operating Systems

:
:

C/C++, C#, MySql
Windows, Linux

INTERNATIONAL TESTS
June 2010
SAT II Physics – 710, Mathematics Level II – 720, Chemistry – 660
EDUCATION
2010 - 2014

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY WARANGAL, Warangal, AP, India
Bachelor of Technology, Computer Science &Engineering
 CGPA 7.09
 Scholarship holder of highly competitive Govt. of India – Nepal scholarship program
covering 100% tuition and living expenses for all four years of Engineering
 Elected member of the Student Council
 Participated in organization of annual All-India inter-college technical fest and cultural fest
 Member of Computer Society of India – NITW Chapter
Key Courses Completed:
 Data Structures and Algorithms

Mobile Computing.
 Object-Oriented Programming
 Database Management Systems
 Assembly Language Programming
 Computer Organization and
Architecture

2008 - 2010

May 2008








Computer Networks
Network Security
Operating Systems
Data Warehouse and Data Mining
Computer Vision/Image Processing

DELHI PUBLIC SCHOOL, Mathura Road, New Delhi, India
CBSE – XII, Engineering Stream with Computer Science
 Aggregate 85%
 Participated in various community related initiatives like blood donation camps, Delhi
Police’s Traffic awareness camps, tree plantation camps etc.
ST. AUGUSTINE’S SCHOOL, Darjeeling, West Bengal
ICSE - X, Engineering Stream with Computer Science
 Aggregate 89%, school topper
 Assisted in storing school’straditional records in digital format
 Represented school in various extracurricular activities like, quiz, debate, football etc.

EXPERIENCE (Internships/Projects)
EXPERIENCE (Full time)

AKS Software Services, Noida
October 2014: One month experience as Associate Software developer at AKS Software Services, Noida.
Was a member of R&D team which was working towards various Image Processing projects like Motion
Detection, Automatic Number Plate Recognition, Face recognition, object detection etc. and also the visual
basic integration of the same.
March – May 2014: Final Year Project
 Worked in a team of four members towards improving “Cold Start Problem” in Collaborative
Filtering in Recommendation Systems and managed to produce improved results. The “Cold
Start” problem is the inability of the system to deal with circumstances when a new
item enters the system for recommendation.
May – July 2013: THAKRAL ONE,Kathmandu,Nepal
 Monitored network/software access to the IT network and updated security programs as a
part of the security procedure
 Administered network services, executed system analysis and troubleshooting in order to
resolve problems on servers, workstations and other network devices
May – June 2012: NATIONAL COMPUTER,Kathmandu, Nepal
 Provided installation, configuration, back/restore of OS/software packages to customers
 Provided full range of hardware repair and maintenance services to the customers in a timely
and cost-effective manner at the service center
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Community Service:
 Wikipedia: Regular contributor on Wikipedia on topics ranging from literary personalities
like R.K. Narayanan to Sports personalities.
 Gopal Sewa Samiti: Regular volunteer at this NGO that works on the social upliftment of
communities in rural Nepal
Hobbies:



Football: I am a die-hard Manchester United fan. I have never missed a game in last 10 years
and have been following it religiously.
Philately (stamps collection): I have rare stamps from countries that do not exist today eg.
East Germany and West Germany, Tibet, Czechoslovakia

