Sudheer Y

                                                                        
               

Current Role/Designation: Java Technical Lead.		E-Mail:
y_patro@yahoo.com

Core Technology: Java/J2EE					Contact: 9618375376

. 

Professional Highlights 

10+ Years of IT Experience in various phases of SDLC including Proposal
Preparation, quoting for international projects,  Project Estimation,
Design Specification, Resource Planning , Development, Customization,
Integration Testing, Implementation, Multi Level of support, User
Training and Documentation. 

Designed, Developed and managed applications for different domains like
Supply Chain Management, Benchmarking and Financial and others using
Java/J2EE and other technologies.

Expertise in Java, EJB JSP, Servlets, Dhtml, GWT, Springs, Ibatis and
Vignette Application Portal(CMS). Experienced in J2EE based Middleware
applications and products.

Confident in Benchmark Analytics, Forecast Analytics and other tool
research. Knowledge in data warehousing tools.

Customer relationship management including handling multiple portfolios,
interacting with multiple stake holders.

People management including staffing, issue resolution, team dynamics,
aspirations (team size ranging from 5 to 20+)

Strong experience in staging and Production auto deployment process. 
Good knowledge in cluster environment / load balancing / LDAP for
production based applications. 

Experience in Salesfroce.com and Qualtrics.com integrations to other
applications. 

Compliance to Quality practices like CMMi/BS 9000.

Organizational Exposure

Software Integrations & Production Support: June’14 – May'05 –
Bostonlogix- Hyderabad.

Application Development & Production Support - Manager: June’14 –
May'05 - The Hackett Group India Limited Hyderabad.

Associate – Application Development and Support: Nov’04 –
May’05: Perot Systems, Bangalore.

Senior Software Engineer – Product Development and Support: July’03
– Nov’04: Four Soft Limited, Hyderabad.

Software Engineer – Application Development: Sept’02 – July’03:
Symphony Software Private Limited, Hyderabad.

Software Engineer – Application Development: Oct’99 – Oct’00:
RGP Javaline Technology, Hyderabad.

Key Achievements

Sun Certified Java Programmer.

Brainbench Certification in C, C++,Java, and java-EJB. 

Achieved best performance of Employee of the Year award from The Hackett
Group.

Extensive implementation experience in Vignette Application Portal 7.2.

Scholastics

M.Tech (IT) from Punjabi University.

M. C. A from Osmania University, with 72.3% in October 1999.

B. Sc with specialization in Computer Science from Andhra University in
1996.

Corporate Training

Title	Organized by	Duration

Management Training	The Hackett Group (India) Limited	10 weeks

PMP Training / Project Management Tools.	HYSEA formally IT’sAP	6 days

Corporate Training on JBuilder.	Answerthink India Limited	10 days

Corporate Training on JDeveloper, Perforce and  GWT.	Answerthink India
Limited	10 days



Technical Skills

Java Technologies:	J2SDK 1.x, AWT, JFC/Swing, JDBC, Applets, Servlets,
EJB, RMI, JNDI, JSTL, JMS, Java Mail, JNI, Java Beans, Ibatis and Google
Web Toolkit.                                               

Web Technologies:	JSP, DHTMLX, AJAX, HTML, XML, JSON, JavaScript,
FrontPage, Dream weaver 3.0, Visual Interdev and MS Front Page.

Languages:	Java, C, C++, COBOL, Shell Scripts, SQL, and PL/SQL. 

IDE & Other Tools:	Eclipse, JDeveloper, JBuilder, BEA Weblogic, Serena
team track 6.5, PVCS Tracker, Jira, AccuWork, Rally and StarTeam Agile.

Modeling Tools:			Rational Rose, UML, Oracle Designer 2000, Visio, Smart
Draw

App Frameworks	                	Jakarta Struts, Log4j, Ant, Spring and
Hibernate.

Database:	Oracle 7.x/8.x/9.x/10g/11i, MySQL and MS-Access 2000.

Web/Application Servers:	BEA Weblogic 8.1, Vignette Portal, Apache
Tomcat 6.0 and Oracle 11g.. 

Operating Systems:	Windows 2000/NT/XP/98/7.0, Red Hat Linux 9.0 and
MS-DOS

Other Skills                                        C, C++,Ant tool,
REST Web Service and Salesforce.com

Reports:				Quadbase reports

Version Control:	    	               CVS, WinCVS, PVCS, Perforce and
AccuRev.

Network Protocol Tools: 	               SSH  and PuTTY.

Core Competencies 

Managerial

Managing portfolio of projects cost budgeting, planning and execution of
programs.

Working closely with Business Stakeholders for approval of budget for
program & monitoring project progress and outstanding issues

Assisting the team in resolving business issues, coordinating with
various stakeholders and ensuring timely closure of open action items.

Ensuring quality and timeliness of the deliverables & reporting the
project’s progress and escalating issues.

Providing input on the project strategy, policies and major issue
resolutions.

Holding review meetings to monitor progress of the project as per
schedule / budgets, and ensuring timely completion and delivery of the
project to the client.

Delivering and implementing the project as per scheduled deadlines;
extending post-implementation and maintenance support to the technical
support team and client.

Primarily responsible for delivering development, maintenance and
support services to Hackett  internal business units.

Resource management, utilization and skill enhancement.

Functional

Analyzing user needs and requirements to determine feasibility of design
within time and cost constraints.

Consulting with customers about software system design and maintenance.

Conducting system study and coordinating with team members for product
documentation, system design & integration, coding, application
maintenance, etc.

Delivering and implementing the project as per scheduled deadlines and
extending post-implementation and maintenance support.

Implemented a process for preparing algorithms and flow charts and
reviewing them before writing complex functions.

Technical

Designing, developing and implementing the workflow program,
presentation and handling various phases of interface development based
on technical specification.

Writing functions, procedures, packages, triggers & views in PL/SQL with
knowledge of RDBMS fundamentals.

Preparing the unit test cases, handling modeling use case, sequence,
collaboration, class and component diagrams using MS Visio. 

Experienced in implementing applications with Model-View-Controller
(MVC) pattern using Jakarta Struts.

Well versed with the concepts of Core Java, J2EE, Java Servlets, Java
Server Pages, Custom Tag Libraries, Enterprise Java Beans, JMS, Java
Applets, Exception Handling, JDBC, Struts and Springs  Framework.

Gained experience in using various Web / Application Servers like BEA
Web Logic Application Servers 6.1.x/7.0.x, vignette application portal
7.4, Apache Tomcat 5.x, Macromedia JRun 4.0, IIS and Java Web Server.

Projects Executed 

Project #1: AccuRev & Microfocus Software Integrations: Since July'14 to
till date

AccuRev provides an advanced software development lifecycle solution
that delivers core version control functionality plus sophisticated
graphical configuration and code management. Developers can work both
independently and as a team to create applications while relying on a
consistent, progressive code base.

AccuRev components permit developers to work privately, share code,
develop code serially, lock files if necessary, and protect a code base.


Environment: Java, Gerrit, XML, Json, Jenkins, AnthHill,Tomcat, Eclipse,
Windows, Linux, Ant, Rally.

AccuSync: It is a fully bidirectional utility that synchronizes AccuWork
issues in an AccuRev depot with issues in other issue tracking systems
(ITSs). AccuSync supports the following ITSs: 

Atlassian JIRA 4.x, 5.x, 6.x.

BMC Remedy ITSM 8 

HP Quality Center 9.x, 10.x, 11.x 

IBM Rational ClearQuest 8.x

Rally Enterprise Edition.

Eclipse Plug-in: AccuRev (Eclipse Plug-in) integrates AccuRev
functionality with the Eclipse Platform IDE (Integrated Development
Environment). 

Intellij Plug-in: AccuRev (Intellij Plug-in) integrates AccuRev
functionality with the Intellij Platform IDE (Integrated Development
Environment). 

Connector:

AccuRev Connector for Borland Connect (AccuRev Connector) lets you
synchronize AccuWork assets like stories, tasks, and change requests
with those in other Borland Hub repositories and clients like StarTeam
Agile.

Project #2: Hackett Benchmark Tool and Mindshare Portal (Product) :
Since May'05 to June 14

Url:     HYPERLINK "http://www.thehackettgroup.com" 
http://www.thehackettgroup.com   and   HYPERLINK
"https://mindshare.answerthink.com"  https://mindshare.answerthink.com  
                        

Hackettgroup.com is a leading business advisory firm, which provides
advisory services to the different clients. Hackett’s clients include
70 percentage of fortune 500.As a part of this product many new
developments and enhancements were done to different modules namely
Dashboard, client admin Module, Inquiry Module, and Advisory Services
etc.

Platform: Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlet, Spring, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC,
iBatis), XML,  Dhtmlx J2EE Design patterns, Oracle Database, CVS, 
Apache Tomcat4.1.27, Eclipse3, Windows 2000/NT/7.0, Linux, Ant, Vignette
Application Server, Express reports, Serena Team Track6.5, JBuilder

	

Scope:

	

Used JSP and JavaScript for client side user input validation.

Deployed and integrated the beans with the JSP code.

Wrote SQL based queries and stored procedures to communicate with the
database Oracle.

Created a library of reusable functions to be used in the scripts for
ease of maintenance.

Participated in the DB design of Client and Provider modules.

Writing functions, procedures, packages, triggers & views in PL/SQL with
knowledge of  

     RDBMS  fundamentals.

Participated in the prioritization of software bugs.

Managing portfolio of projects cost budgeting, planning and execution of
programs.

Working closely with Business Stakeholders for approval of budget for
program & monitoring  

    project progress and outstanding issues

Assisting the team in resolving business issues, coordinating with
various stakeholders and 

    ensuring timely closure of open action items.

Analyzing user needs and requirements to determine feasibility of design
within time and cost 

    constraints.

Consulting with customers about software system design and maintenance.

Conducting system study and coordinating with team members for product
documentation, 

    system design & integration, coding, application maintenance, etc.

    Delivering and implementing the project as per scheduled deadlines
and extending post-

    implementation and maintenance support.

    Worked on deployment process for staging and Production environment.


   Compliance to Organizational Quality practices.

	

Worked projects related to Hackett and Mindshare:

Project:  Qualtrics data integration 

Duration: (8 weeks) 2012 May to 2012 June

Integrating the  Qualtrics survey response data to Member site database
using benchmark collection tool. This project Implemented different GUI
for dynamic user surveys.  

Project:  Cross Site Scripting(XSS) Project

Duration: (4 months)2012 February to 2012 May

This project is related add more security in hackett branchmark online
collection tool. Preventing from hackers and vulnerabilities.  

Cross-Site Scripting attacks are a type of injection problem, in which
malicious scripts are injected into the otherwise benign and trusted web
sites. Cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks occur when an attacker uses a
web application to send malicious code, generally in the form of a
browser side script, to a different end user. Flaws that allow these
attacks to succeed are quite widespread and occur anywhere a web
application uses input from a user in the output it generates without
validating or encoding it. 

An attacker can use XSS to send a malicious script to an unsuspecting
user. The end user’s browser has no way to know that the script should
not be trusted, and will execute the script. Because it thinks the
script came from a trusted source, the malicious script can access any
cookies, session tokens, or other sensitive information retained by your
browser and used with that site.

Project:  New South Wales

Duration: (10 Months) 2011 February to 2011 November

This project involved  Internationalize the Finance , Human Resources,
Information Technology  and Procurement questions to change the existing
project setup and included additional features in online benchmark
collection tool.

Project:  Allocation Engine

Duration: (7 Months) 2010 February to August 2010

Change project setup in project admin module to select appropriate
Oracle project and task from Project Accounting, this will helps the
each milestone wise status.  Calling the Oracle workflow whenever the
any event/milestone has been updated of the specific project, so we know
the allocated budge if any changes occur in each millstone.  

Project: Question Set Plug and Play Phase 2 - User Interface and
Performance Study Project.

Duration: (1 Year) December 2008 to December 2009

Redesign the complete look and feel of all the existing and new version
benchmark projects.  Performance Study project location structure need
to incorporate as individual company level. Stakeholder can participate
the survey by each project, function and location level wise.

This is very powerful to get the result metrics data as Business unit
level, location level and complete project level.  This could be helps
bottom level rollup data with Business Unit currency.

Project:  Question Set Plug & Play Location Structure/Registration –
Part III.

Duration:  (8 Months) April 2008 to November 2008

This is the third phase of the project it was contains the remaining
portion of the Question Set Plug and Play project. The focus of this
project will be to incorporate the Performance Study Location Structure
and Registration process. 

Project:  Question Set Plug & Play Template Creation – Part II.

Duration: (4 weeks) February 2008 to March 2008

This will include template creation and updates as well as hiding
questions at the location level. A process flow and wire frames will be
provided. The benchmark tool has been slowly working its way to plug and
play. These updates will allow for better sales opportunities for
specific client needs as they differ from project to project. Another
benefit is to allow for better data collection and possibly more data
points.

Project : Question Set Plug & Play FTE Collection Part I.

Duration: (4 Months) November 2007 to February 2008

The focus will be on the better collection of FTEs in order to produce
better analysis.  The FTE Spreadsheet has been a powerful tool, but
there is still the lack of regional (global) information. In addition,
projects vary in detail and ability to collect FTEs. The current format
is static for all projects on 1059. This will be the first step to a
more flexible tool that can change per project.

Project: Salesforce.com Advisory Deployment Phase 2 and Multi-Currency.

Duration: (4 Months) July 2007 to October 2007

(1) Enhance efficiency and effectiveness of Advisory Customer Support
staff by eliminating the need for them to enter data on Advisory
Memberships and Participants twice – once in the Advisory Workbench
(AWB) and once in Salesforce.Com

(2) Improve the quality of Advisory data by eliminating dual entry,
minimizing data duplication and integrity problems, and providing
additional information of value in managing Advisory Memberships 

(3) Interface opportunity currency code from Salesforce.com to Mindshare
for the purpose of populating the project setup form. 

Project:   SC and WC Benchmark Creation.

Duration: (2 Months) April 2007 to May2007.

This is to update Version 1059 with the addition of Service Center and
Working Capital Questions. These functions do not currently exist in
version 1059.

	a.  Inclusion of two new functions to version 1059.

	b.  Service Center

	c.  Working Capital

Project:  Advisory Workbench.

Duration: (4 Months) December 2006 to March 2007

The Business Requirements and Functional Specification for changes to
the Advisory Management Workbench designed to raise renewal rates by
improving the effectiveness and efficiency of client engagement
activities. The changes are focused in three key areas:

	Modify the data structures and screens that associate Client Service
Managers (CSMs) and Advisors with client memberships to reflect the fact
that CSMs are now assigned by Advisory Program within each client.

Project :  Rapid Sales, Rapid Marketing & Rapid Service Additions.

Duration : (3 Months) August 2006 to October 2006. 

This is to update Version 1059 with the addition of Rapid Sales, Rapid
Marketing and Rapid Service functions. Changes were made during original
Rapid project to update application to allow for new functions. This is
to add the remaining 3 functions to 1059 in the Rapid format.

Project :  Quick Enhancements.

Duration : (4 Months ) February  2006 to June 2006.

During time between projects, there is the ability to address a few
quick surveys in order to help the business deliver to clients and
gather data. The first one is for an update to the Project Set up Form
and one is to create a new question type. The Project Set up Form is
used by the business to submit a request to have a project set up in the
portal and signifies all the proper information to the BSC for set up.
It will helps to quick survey. 

Project #3: DHL Interactive (Product) : Since Nov'04 to May'05

The DHL Interactive site is a business portal and a single entry point
for your shipments. This portal enables you to access DHL Interactive
services for the former Danzas organization. 

Able to book shipments online. 

Find the right products and timetables for your shipments. 

Keep track of and search your shipments.

Create reports of your shipments.

Platform: Java, JSP, Servlet, J2EE Design Patterns, CSS, JavaScript,
JDBC, Oracle Database,  Weblogic, Jdevloper, Windows OS, PVCS Tracker
and Win CVS.

Scope:

Used JSP, core Java and JavaScript for client side user input
validation.

Interacting with the clients for Business Requirements, and getting the
change Requests and coordinating with the onsite offshore Development
activities

Performed Backend testing using SQL queries.

Participated in technical reviews and inspection of functional and
design specifications.

Designed Forms and Reports for the project according to the
requirements.

Created a library of reusable functions to be used in the scripts for
ease of maintenance. Enhanced the error reporting by custom designing
the error messages.  

Project #4: Eagle Global Logistics, USA.  : Since July'03 to Oct'04

One of EGL’s business objectives is to develop a logistics solution
and migrate all EGL stations from existing legacy systems to this
solution.  This solution consists of integrating applications such as
eTrans (logistics solution) with Oracle Financials. The integration of
data and migration from legacy systems (Fastrack, CLASS, Worldport,
PlusData, FAMS, LIMS, and Universe) will occur in multiple phases.

4S e-Trans meet all the information requirements of freight service
providers in moving their customers’ shipments   across various
geographical locations. It is a complete B2B enterprise application and
handles all operational (PRQ, booking, House air way bills etc),
customer relations, and financial and sales information needs of Air,
Ocean and Trucking.

4S e-Supply offers the twin suite end-to-end supply chain
solution for Logistics, Transportation and Distribution businesses.4S
e-Supply is the perfect web based solution to deliver the synergy and
visibility at various level across the entire supply chain.

4S e-Supply can be used as an integrated solution, virtually
covering the whole supply chain management. It can also be deployed
independently as 4S e-Log for the logistics & distribution management
and 4S e-Trans for the freight management. It is well synchronized to
give visibility over the entire supply chain.

Platform: Java, EJB, JSP, Servlet, J2EE Design Patterns, CSS,
JavaScript, JDBC, Oracle Database, Weblogic, Jdevloper, Windows OS, PVCS
Tracker and Win CVS.

Scope:

	

Identified and implemented the EJB (both entity beans and session beans)
for the system.

Used JSP and JavaScript for client side user input validation.

Deployed and integrated the beans with the JSP code.

Wrote SQL based queries and stored procedures to communicate with the
database Oracle 8.

Performed Backend testing using SQL queries.

Created a library of reusable functions to be used in the scripts for
ease of maintenance. Enhanced the error reporting by custom designing
the error messages.

Project #5: Graber engineering power-tap instrument : Since Sept'02 to
June'03

Power-tap is a product from Graber Corporation in the performance
training space. It is used by a majority of cyclists and coaches in
their training / coaching / racing programmer. This instrument records
relevant data. The collected data is extracted from the power-tap to the
pc through USB/ Serial port as raw data used in analyzing and training
the cyclist.

Graber Products desire a new usability to its power-tap to capture the
growing collaborative bicycle training market. Currently a pc based
application that will be upgraded to Internet based application. The
objective is to study the current workflow, understand the
functionalities, which will be used for design, development, testing &
implementation of the system. The goal of the proposed system is to
provide a PC based interactive adaptive & portable user interface in
time and budget. Another objective is to provide a generic architecture
to upgrade, scale and port to Internet based application to cater the
future need(s).

Platform: Java, JSP, Servlet, Swing, Java2D CSS, JavaScript, JDBC,
Oracle Database, Jdevloper, Windows OS and Win CVS.

Scope:

Participated in technical reviews and inspection of functional and
design specifications.

Also developed front tier using JSP with JavaScript and HTML.

Created a library of reusable functions to be used in the scripts for
ease of maintenance. Enhanced the error reporting by custom designing
the error messages.

Project #6: Med Price 2.0 : Since Sept'02 to July'03

Med Price is powerful enterprise application software that easily
handles a wide range of pricing options, accommodates diverse provider
contracts, maintains key provider tables and accommodates complex
interrelationships within networks. 

Claims are run through Med Price web based reprising system where they
are systematically re-priced based on negotiated rates by the clients.
The project is designed and being developed using the existing proven
Technologies and Architectures. It was designed purely based on the MVC
Architecture and used design patterns Proxy, Session Façade, and DAOs.

Platform: Java, JSP, Servlet, J2EE Design Patterns, EJB, CSS,
JavaScript, JDBC, Oracle Database, Weblogic 5.1, Jdevloper, Windows OS
and Win CVS.

Scope: 

Participated in the DB design of Client and Provider modules.

Participated in the prioritization of software bugs.

Performed Backend testing using SQL queries.

  

Project #7: Electrobug (www.electrobug.com) : Since Oct'99 to Feb'00

The target data of all these operations facilitate the automatic data
generation/management for the various Data services provided by the
client (EB, UK). These include Price Index, Product catalogue
management, price manipulation and management, air reservations and
other info. 

Designing and creation of crawled and mapped databases and monitoring
retrieve data and generate databases like product code database, AIN
code database for consumer durables. Creating Market research data feeds
which covers multiple products info from multiple retailers, each with
different naming conventions. 

Configuration crawler, Designing and delivering installation programs,
generating and managing security keys for the application services, and
receiving client feedback.

Platform: Java, JSP, Servlet, Swings, CSS, JavaScript, JDBC, Ms-Excel,
Ms-Access, Jdevloper and Windows OS. 

Scope :

Coding and Testing.

Configuration the tool

Report Generation.

Participated in the prioritization of software bugs.

Performed Backend testing using SQL queries.

