Tulshekar Gangireddy

Technical Summary

Over 17 years of experience in Managing, Architecting, Designing,
Development and deployment of Products and Projects (Solutions).

Significant Strengths -- Quick Learner, Adaptable, Excellent teamwork
skills backed up with creative thinking, good communication and problem
solving skills. 

Language:	Java and J2EE, Perl, SDL, Shell Scripting, XML Technologies,
Webservices, C, C++

Technology:	CORBA, High Availability Clusters (RAC), VoIP, J2EE, UML
Methodology, SOA

Telecom Domain:	IN, SS7, H323, WAP, SIP, CCXML, and VXML

Operating System:	HP-UX, Linux, Solaris, and Windows

Tools:	Telelogic SDL, Rational Rose, and TogetherJ

Backend Databases: 	Oracle, Mysql

NoSQL systems:	Cassandra

Application Servers: 	Weblogic Server, Apache Tomcat 

EAI products:	Weblogic Integration, Aqualogic Service Bus and other
opensource ESBs 

Knowledge:	OpenSource Frameworks like Spring, Struts, Struts 2, Flex,
ICEfaces etc. Zachman EA Framework.

Big Data :	Hadoop.

Education:	-Master of Engineering (Computer Science) – 8.6 CGPA

                                                              PSG
College of Technology.

	-Pursuing Senior Management Program from IIM Calcutta.

Experience

Director of Engineering, Cafyne R&D India Ltd – Mar 15 – now.

Head of Engineering responsible for the End to End Product Development,
Quality Assurance and Development Operations of the Product. Product
deals with Real Time Analytics and Social Media Compliance using Storm
based systems, NLP based ontology implementations. 

Engineering Manager, Juniper Networks India Ltd ..Jan’14- Mar’15

Head their engineering Team for Security Insights group building Device
Data Analytics applications for Juniper products. 

Engineering Manager, Apigee India Pvt Ltd.,   Aug’ 12–  Jan 2014

Build, Manage and Enhance their API platform engineering. 90-95% of API
customers were served by this platform and was chaotic with a lot of
production issues when it took the ownership of the same. Completely
streamlined a chaotic situation of the old platform and made sure it is
a smooth sail for customers on the platform and their move to the new
platform. Responsibility of this team is to provide enhancements, help
customers in their application implementation and issue resolution on
the API platform. 

Build, Manage the Apigee’s on-premise self-service multi-tenant cloud
platform.  My team is responsible for enhancing the self-service cloud
platform to work for On-premise customers i.e., developing custom
adapters, building diagnostic capabilities for easy integration into
customer environments, build an installation capability for the
on-premise complex network deployment topologies. 

Engineering Manager, Yahoo SDC India Ltd.,   Jun’ 10– Apr’12

Architect, Build and Manage the Migration Platform product (Many-to-Many
Service Mediation Platform). Contribute to Yahoo! Messenger, Yahoo! Mail
backend engineering.

Build and Manage a team responsible for providing migration engineering
services to the Yahoo! Distribution Partners across the world.Build and
Enhance the features of Yahoo! Messenger and Yahoo! Mail platforms. 

Engineering Manager, Akamai Technologies India Ltd.,   Mar’ 07 –
Jun’10.

Architect and Manage their Download Analytics Product line from
Bangalore office. End-to-End product development for this analytics
product is the responsibility of my team in Bangalore. 

I manage a small team who are responsible for design, development of
Download Analytics products for various HTTP Content Delivery Mechanisms
of Akamai.  It is a Techno-managerial role. 

My roles and responsibilities are form/grow the team, Architect and
guide them through the dev process and getting them to understand the
‘Big Picture’, Make them Self Sufficient and grow them technically
and as an individual. 

The team has contributed to beta release of the product, on the way to
be LA (Limited Availability).

Technical Architect, FCG Software Services India Ltd., Sept’06 –
Mar’07.

 Define Reference Architectures for FCG SOA initiative. 

Currently working to create a Reference Architecture for ECM (Enterprise
Content Management) using Enterprise Service Bus(BEA Aqualogic, Mule
etc), Drools (Jboss Rules Engine), Documentum and J2EE technologies. 

Architecture Creation/Validation Services

As an Architect, I help FCG to create new architectures and proposal for
new projects and new customers. I do Architecture validations etc
wherever required in case of already existing projects and
re-engineering projects.

PoCs for a New Clients and New Partnerships 

Lead new client initiatives and created PoC for a telecom application
which uses technologies like J2EE(JSP/Struts), Hibernate, Flux, Jbpm. We
have won the project based on the work done on the same. 

Technical Lead, Sonus Networks India Pvt Ltd., JAN.’06 -Sept’06

Role :- Architect /Lead role –

Architecting the Solution, design and manage the effort till the
delivery of the project.

Assist in analysis of scope, estimation and planning of the projects.

Responsible for the design, development and deployment of the projects.

Fixed Mobile Convergence (FMC): FMC is Fixed Mobile Convergence enables
a user to continue in the call with cheaper alternatives when he has
access to the same. An example would be a person continues his call on
the Landline (cheaper than mobile) when he reaches home instead of
continuing his call on his mobile phone by a simple click. 

J2EE, CCXML, VXML, IMX(sonus voice platform), SIP, Jboss environment

Digital Avatar: Digital Avatar enables a user to establish conference
with his outlook contacts. A user's outlook contacts are obtained using
the API and then a meeting invite is sent to the selected contacts. On
acceptance of the same, a notification is sent to the initiator
regarding the same. A conference call is initiated with all the parties
at the scheduled time of the conference and all are joined into the
conference.

J2EE, CCXML, VXML, IMX (sonus voice platform), SIP, Jboss environment.

Click To Dial: Click To dial application enables a user to talk another
user in Sonus by click of a button in the web browser. This application
provides additional flexibilities of configuring CanBeReach (CBR)
numbers and Mobile numbers. Integration with Share Point Portal provides
employee to employee calling across regions very simple.

J2EE, CCXML, IMX (sonus voice platform), SIP, Jboss environment.

Dev Relations Engineer-II, BEA, 	Dec.’04 to Jan.’06

Role:-

Provide design and product related consultancy for Weblogic Server and
Weblogic Integration with respect to Critical design issues of
Customers.

Address problems and provide alternate design strategies for Customer
while using Weblogic Server and Weblogic Integration.

Provide in-depth technical feedback to the product team regarding the
new features/enhancements to be added to the product.

It involves lot of analysis with respect to technical specifications
(J2EE majorly) and help the customer in reaching a best possible
solution.

Weblogic Integration 8.1, Weblogic Server 8.1, Weblogic Workshop, J2EE.

Specialist (Project Lead/Tech Lead), Hewlett Packard,	

Dec.’00 to Dec.’04

Role: – Project Lead/Technical Lead

Responsible for Requirement Analysis and Design of the solution. 

Assist in analysis of scope, estimation and planning of the projects.

Responsible for the development and delivery of the projects.

Responsible for Architect, Design and Develop the High Availability
Solution into the WITS product. The solution is for a Telecom Service
Provider where 5 nines (99.999) availability was the main goal. 

Served as a Deployment Lead onsite interacting with the Customer
whenever required.

Mobile Number Portability: The project is to develop a solution which
will support an MNP Service with appropriate data. These MNP requests
need to be authenticated and appropriately communicated to other
operators for their local DB updation. The complete mediation for all
the authentication interactions with Government and Supervision
Authorities and DB Update of other operators is managed by this Solution
through XML Messaging. 

Weblogic platform 8.1 (WLI (Workflow engine), Weblogic Server, Weblogic
Workshop), Java and Enterprise Java Beans 2.0, XML Schemas environment.

OA&M Solution of HP OCIN platform: The project is to develop a
management solution for HP Opencall platform using TeMIP. TeMIP is
management software used for managing Switches and Telecom equipment.
This project is mainly to demonstrate the ability of TeMIP in managing
Network Elements like OpenCall Servers.

SDL, HP-UX, HP OCIN platform, Oracle, TeMIP, Perl , Shell Scripting

Routing Plan Service for IN platform: The project is to develop the
Routing Plan Service for 800 numbers for a Service Provider. This
solution is provided for big corporate as a service for routing their
800 calls based on SLAs. A Plan Builder tool enables the administrator
to create various routing plans which is like a tree wiring various
nodes/functionality. The IN Service implements the control/message flow
between the various nodes in this tree.

SDL, HP-UX, HP OCIN platform, Oracle environment, Telelogic SDT

Extended Administration Facility for HP OpenView: A Web based Enhanced
Administration Facility for HP OpenView Vantage Point Operations. The
work was to create a web based interface that provides the same
functionality of the VPO (Motif) Client. The EAFW interfaces only to
EAFC (command-line interface) and does not have any control on the
background operations.

HP OpenView, Perl, PHP, Solaris, Apache-SSL (Apache+Openssl)
environment.

VoIP Service Framework Development: Develop a VoIP Service Framework
which does overall service flow control. The Framework does the handling
of Basic Call Setup Messages like GRQ, RRQ, ARQ, BRQ etc relieving the
Services of the same. Framework thus helps Services like Call
Forwarding, Call Screening, Advanced GW Routing etc concentrate on the
business logic instead of worrying about the Call Setup messages. 

H.323, Telelogic SDL, OpenCall MultiService Controller environment (HP
VoIP Platform).

VoIP VPN Deployment: This Project is mainly aimed at providing VoIP
Virtual Private Network Service for corporate across their various
branches through a Service Provider. Work involved deploying a StarVox
VPN over the available IP network for a service provider (ISP/PSTN
provider) and test VoIP VPN service on HP Opencall Multiservice
Controller (OCMC), which is based on HP's OC platform..

Deployment Lead for the Solution in Taiwan and responsible for System
Testing, Integration and Acceptance onsite. 

HP-UX, C, SQL, WML and WAP environment.

Wireless Internet Total Solution Enhancement: The work was to add High
Availability to the WITS product. The WITS solution was productized
using HP-UX Servers. The work was to design and implement High
Availability into the WITS Solution on HP-UX Servers using HP’s own
MC-Service Guard Software. 

Environment: Unix Shell Scripting.

ESC Technet Collaboration Tool: It is a simple collaboration tool where
tech savvy's can perform discussions, search discussion archives(partial
keywords etc), store view and modify project profile information, upload
and view project related documents from a project repository, It is an
internal project and done as an additional work out of personal interest
for the internal company use.

Apache, cgi, perl, XML environment.

Senior Engineer/Specialist, TATA ELXSI Ltd., 	Feb.’99 to Dec.’00

Role: – Tech Lead.

Responsible for all Customer Requirement Analysis. 

Responsible for the Design and Development of the projects.

Responsible for the testing and the deployment of the projects.

Echogent Firewall Servicing System: The project is mainly to design and
develop a Firewall management system. The System provides the user a Web
based configuration tool for configuring and managing this firewall. 
The firewall is built using the Linux based ipchains utility. Scripts
running on the Central Webserver resident at Echogent Systems will do
all the configuration and management. This is mainly to have control and
to provide continuous security service for the Echogent Client NAT
boxes.

RedHat and Debian Linux 6.1+kernel 2.2.16, OpenSSH, fsh, Apache+SSL,
Perl, HTML, XML environment.

Safe Com Element Manager-NEC Conversion: The project is basically to
provide support for a Network (Device)Manager implemented by a Telecom
company. This project is intended to design a data structure and perform
an interconversion between a tree-structure file. This helps the manager
in the offline configuration of the telecom equipment.

Java, WindowsNT, PC-Pentium, Advent Net NMS API, Rational Rose OO
modeling Tool.

Personal Network Agent for Mobile Computing: The project is mainly to
design and develop an agent, which provides a service to the user
through his mobile phone. He can check his financial status at various
important life plan stages (the stages which he marked as important
stages of his life) at any time through his mobile phone.

JDK 1.2, Java Servlets, XML, Windows NT environment.

Test Automation System: The project is mainly to design and develop
automated testing environment for different stages in the design process
of the hardware or ASIC design.

Perl 5, HP-UX, Solaris environment.

NetObjectsArchitecture: Design and Development of NOA, which is
basically a network computer based architecture implementation in Java.
A central server stores all the java applications, applets etc. Any
client who needs to use these applications, applets etc can connect to
the server and invoke them dynamically, use them and dispose them
without loading them onto the local system harddrive.

Java 1.2,Servlets, CORBA(Visibroker for Java), Windows NT, Rational Rose
OO Modeling tool

Project Assistant, CDAC,	May.’98 to Feb.’99

Role :- Individual contributor performing study and research ORB from
WUSTL (ACE ORB).

Real-time Extensions to CORBA for Distributed Real -time Fault Tolerance
Implementation:  This is a project intended for development of generic
Fault tolerance implementation in industrial environments. It is meant
for real-time industrial requirements implemented in a distributed
sense. CORBA was chosen for the purpose being the best in the
distributed technologies packaged with language and platform
independence. 

Responsible to analyse requirements for Distributed Real-time Systems,
identify the features to be implemented into CORBA for real-time
response. 

Provided Idl interfaces for a few and Compare the performance of
Visibroker for java and c++.

Significant Achievements (Awards received)

Received special contribution awards from HP for various projects.
(WITS-TAIWAN, WITS-ISRAEL, EAF for HP Open View and Mobile Number
Portability)

Received Lab level award for solely managing the complete High
Availability Solution for the WITS product in Taiwan and for the core
product (WITS 2.0).

Received an IPOD from BEA during my tenure with them for excellent
managing a customer design problem and helping in getting a Huge Deal
with them.

Training Programs

Attended a professional Training program in CORBA (Visibroker for Java
3.4 and 4.0 and Orbix) from a member of the OMG.

Attended a practical training for J2EE (Advanced Java and Enterprise
Java Beans (EJB)) using weblogic application server.

Attended a training program in Microsoft.NET platform and C#.

Personal Details

     Address :- SB-203, Purva Sunshine, Sarjapur road, Kaikondrahalli,
Bangalore - 560035

	Phone – 9980164676. Email – tulasig@yahoo.com

Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES \*Arabic  6 

RESUME – TULSHEKAR GANGIREDDY

Page   PAGE  6  of   NUMPAGES \*Arabic  6 

