D. Puneet Reddy
443 A7/1, Road #86, Jubilee Hills,
Hyderabad. 500033

Phone: 9160924201
e-mail: puneet.reddy@gmail.com

Summary:

 Over one and a half years’ experience in end to end application development using SQL Server, C#.NET and a
variety of front ends covering the entire software development life cycle (SDLC) including requirement
gathering and testing.
 Knowledge of Banking, Financial Analysis and Original Equipment Manufacturing(OEM) companies.
 Proficient in version control on GIT and SVN.
 Experienced in packaging and deployment of backward compatible n-tier architecture.
 Sound knowledge of SQL Server 2008 and 2012 including query optimization, stored procedures and creating
and maintaining complex relational databases.
 Well versed in application development using object oriented analysis and design. (OOPS)
 Quick learner with good communication skills.

Technical Skills:
.Net Technologies
Web Development
Languages
Database/DataAccess Technologies
Development Tools
Web Servers
Operating Systems

C#.NET 3.0/3.5/4.0/4.5, Web Services
HTML5, XML, XSLT, CSS, JavaScript
C#, SQL, C, C++, Java
MS-SQL Server 2008/2012
Visual Studio .NET 2008/2010, Eclipse SDK
IIS
Windows 7, Windows Server 2008, Windows XP, Unix, Linux

Employment History:
Bloomberg LLC – New York City
R&D Financial Software Engineer, Feb2013 – July2014
Bloomberg is a financial software, data and media company specializing in providing real time business data and
analytics.
Job roles
 End to end design of administrative tools for the marketing team to allow them to specify default and secondary
reviewers and approvers for events based either on business unit hierarchy or global region.
 Migration from legacy databases to SQL Server.
 Design and implementation of complex hierarchical data structure involving simultaneous searching across two
separate tree structures.
 Created a web service job to schedule and send e-mail reminders to users daily, monthly or weekly as specified
by the user.
 Design of UI components using a JavaScript based technology.
 Creation and deployment of SOAP and XML Web Services.
 Worked with SVN to maintain source code history.
 Implemented caching in the webservice to reduce existing page load times considerably.

Education:
M.S Mechanical Engineering from The University of Pennsylvania – Dec 2012
Diploma in Software Engineering from NIIT - 2008
B.E. Mechanical Engineering from C.B.I.T Gandipet – Affiliated to the OsmaniaUniversity.
Intermediate pass with distinction from the Board of Intermediate Education A.P. - 2002

