SWAROOP KUMAR B

Phone: +919640373676 				Address: Flat:103, Aashray Enclave,  Email:
swaroopkumar.badam@gmail.com 		      	    Street No.20, Behind Stanza,  
                Date of Birth: 21st July 1987 				      	   
Himayatnagar, Hyderabad, Languages Known: English, Telugu, Hindi 		    	
   Telangana – 500029.

Objective:

As part of my rigorous academic training, I have developed a keen
interest to learn more about computer science and its related fields. I
wish to acquire a position to utilize my skills and contribute for the
success of the organization.

Educational Qualifications:

Graduation: B.E. (Hons.) Computer Science and M.Sc. (Hons.) Physics,
BITS - Pilani, Goa Campus , CGPA: 7.82

Intermediate: Board of Intermediate Education, Andhra Pradesh,
Percentage: 94.4

High School: Board of Secondary Education, Andhra Pradesh, Percentage:
86.7

Technical Skills:

Programming Languages: C, C++, Java, J2EE, Python, Shell Scripting.

Web Technologies: JavaScript, PHP, JSP, HTML, Ajax, CSS, YUI-Tools,
Google-Closure.

Tools: GIMP, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Flash.

Others: Spring, Hibernate, SQL, 

Work Experience:

Amazon Development Centre. (April 2013 - ) :

I have been working with Vendor Payments Systems(VPS) team at Amazon.
Our team is responsible for the payments to the Amazon vendors all over
the world. We have built an automated system which saves vendor invoice
in the database, matches it with the received inventory and passes on
the payment to OFA (Oracle Financial Apps) system which actually pays
the invoice amount. All of our system is in Java except few legacy CPP
modules which are also under the process of migration. Below is an
overview of my work here till now.

I have launched the complete vendor payment system for Brazil country.
It has given me good oppurtunity to understand our system completely. In
this launch I had to create an independent module to save the XML format
invoices in our system by reconciling data from another data source.

I made some enhancements to the existing invoice creation system by
adding extended attributes to the invoice data, adding metrics at
various parts of the system, supporting new tax rates, modified the
invoice prepayment logic.

Pegasystems Pvt Ltd. (August 2011 – April 2013) :

I worked as Software Engineer in UI Engineering team of Pegasystems.
Pega is a leader in the BPM industry because of its widely used PRPC
product. I am involved in the development of user interface widgets for
the PRPC product. Technologies used are Java, JSP, HTML 5, CSS 3,
JavaScript, AJAX, YUI.

Encora Technologies Pvt Ltd. (August 2010 – August 2011) : 

Our team is involved in the development of internal tools used by other
teams in Google Inc. It was an onsite team working at Google’s office.
Internal tools are the web applications developed using open source and
Google internal technologies. Some of the technologies and frameworks
used are Python, Java, JavaScript, Django, GWT, Ajax, Google Closure
library.

Internship – Kuliza Technologies:

Worked on the development of an e-Learning portal called Bikul which is
based on open source platform Moodle. Developed the course modules by
implementing the business logic on server side and enhanced the
usability on client side with advanced JavaScript and Ajax techniques.
Integrated modules like uploading video resource, cooliris for viewing
multimedia resources and few others. Also developed the sticky notes
functionality and made it user configurable. Server side logic is
entirely implemented in PHP and MySQL, which gave me very good exposure
in those technologies.

Areas of Interest:

        Big Data, Machine Learning, Computer Networks, Graphics, Web
Technologies

Awards / Honors / Achievements:

Recipient of Merit-Cum-Need Scholarship from BITS-Pilani, Goa campus.

Certificate in Network Management and Ethical hacking from Nettech
(www.nettech.in)

Received Merit Certificate in online programming contest QOPC during
Quark 08.

Cartoon animation made by our group as a part of Creative Multimedia
Course using Adobe Flash was regarded as the best project by the course
instructor.

Participation in Extra-Curricular Activities:

Core member of department of photography for the years 2005-‘08 at
BITS-Pilani, Goa Campus.

Stalls committee manager during WAVES-08, the cultural festival of
BITS-Pilani Goa Campus.

Designed posters for various cultural and technical events.

All the information provided above is correct to the best of my
knowledge   

- Swaroop Kumar. B

