Viswanath Ramakkagari
Contact
Information

Apt C-503, Palash
187 Green Drive, Wakad
Pune 411057, India

Phone: +91-97308 83970 (C)
E-mail: viswanath.ramakkagari@gmail.com

Expertise &
Interests

• Algorithm design and software development
• Mathematical Modeling, Numerical Methods

Skills

• Programming Languages: C, C++
• Data Structures and Algorithms, Object Oriented Design
• Teaching/mentoring experience

Education

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, USA
Ph.D., Computer Science, May 2007
• GPA: 4.0 (4.0)
• Concentration on Numerical Methods, Computational Science
University at Buffalo, Amherst, New York, USA
M.S., Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, August 2002
Indian Institute of Technology - Madras, Chennai, India
B.Tech., Mechanical Engineering, July 2000

Work
Experience

Siemens PLM Software, Pune, India

January 2010 - Present

Software Engineer: Advanced
Participate in the software development lifecycle of NX Assembly module. NX is a CAD, CAM &
CAE software. Siemens PLM Software is a leading global provider of product lifecycle management
(PLM) software.
Roles and Responsibilities:
• Development of new functionality in the Assembly module using OOP concepts in C++. An
assembly can be visualized as a tree data structure. Relationship between the nodes in the
assembly can be captured in a graph as parent child relationships.
• Mentor junior members in the team.
• Maintain and support existing software.
• Code reviews, design reviews of projects as required.
Current Project(s):
• 4GD Constraints: Participate in the development of support for position constraints in 4GD.
4GD is aimed at solutions toward customers working with very large assemblies and need support
for collaborative design. Challenges are to propose completely new workflows, develop new
capabilities and re-engineer existing software.
Past Projects:
• Component Patterns: Provided support for variable component positioning when working with
component patterns. This project required knowledge of geometric transformations, perform

complex bookkeeping and resolve dependencies between objects. Additionally, it required that
objects update in a certain order and just in time.
• Component Patterns: Provided support for component patterns by making them displayable and
selectable both in the graphics screen and assembly navigator.
• Copy Parts between Planes: Required knowledge of geometric transformations, data structures,
elementary graph algorithms (Topological Sort). Project involved complex bookkeeping. Employed policy-based design (strategy pattern) to detach application specifics from algorithm.
Additionally, journaling, error handling, undo and redo mechanisms had to be supported (As the
application interface was UI based)
• Assembly Navigator: Development on Drag & Drop, Cut Copy Paste mechanism in assembly
navigator. Employed singleton pattern and placed emphasis on avoiding code duplication.
Other :
• Pune NX Recognition Award for Exemplary Contribution, Siemens PLM Software, Q3-Q4
2010.
• Training: Regularly conduct training sessions on Data Structures and Algorithms, STL.
CAE R&D Services, Cranes Software International Limited, Bangalore, India
Sr. Engineer - Development
November 2007 - January 2010
Technical leader of a team of 2 people involved in the software development of Fluid and Heat
Transfer modules of NISA (A Finite Element Software Suite).
• Provided technical expertise in understanding of formulations, algorithm design and software
development in existing software framework
• Implementation of Groundwater Flow and Contaminant Transport equations through porous
media based upon Heat Transfer module
• Restructuring of code wherever necessary.
• Coordinated with the inhouse consultancy team on consultancy projects.
Academic
Experience

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, USA
Research Assistant
Summer 2003 - Summer 2004, Summer 2005 - Spring 2007
Included dissertation and research work. Software for the work was developed in C++ using OOP
concepts, STL and extensive use of templates.
• Finite Element Approach:
• Proposed a new approach in the finite element framework for solving singularly perturbed
convection-diffusion problems. The test function space was exponentially fitted to provide
a good approximation to the solution of the dual problem.
• Developed a posteriori error estimation strategies for singularly perturbed convection-diffusion
problems.
• Superconvergence: Investigation of superconvergence in Local Discontinuous Galerkin method
for convection-diffusion equations.
• Error Estimation: Implemented error estimation strategies for elliptic equations in TRELLIS
software framework.
Teaching Assistant
Fall 2002 - Spring 2003, Fall 2004 - Spring 2005
Teaching assistant for undergraduate level courses. Shared responsibility for grading homework,
exams and projects. Conducted office hours and weekly recitations.
• CSCI 2300 Data Structures and Algorithms, Fall 2002 & Spring 2003.
• CSCI 1190 Beginning C for Engineers, Fall 2004 & Spring 2005.

Course Projects
• Re-Implementation of Iterators in std::list and std::slist using Iterator Adaptors: Involved
the re-implementation of iterators using iterator adaptors concept from the Boost Iterator Adaptor Library.
• Compression of a SML/NG document: Optimized the representation of the data by removing
redundancies in its representation.
University at Buffalo, Amherst, New York, USA
Research Assistant
Included thesis and research work.

Summer 2001 - Spring 2002

Teaching Assistant
Fall 2000 - Spring 2002
Teaching assistant for undergraduate and graduate level courses. Shared responsibility for grading
homework, exams and projects. Conducted office hours, weekly recitations and laboratory experiments (where appropriate).

Journal
Publications

V. Ramakkagari and J.E. Flaherty. “A New Stable Method for Singularly Perturbed ConvectionDiffusion Equations”, Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering, 197 (17), p.15071524, Mar 2008

Conference
Presentations

V. Ramakkagari and J.E. Flaherty. “A new stability method for singularly perturbed convectiondiffusion equations”, 9th US National Congress on Computational Mechanics, San Francisco, CA,
2007.
V. Ramakkagari and J.E. Flaherty. “A new stability method for singularly perturbed convectiondiffusion equations”, 7th World Congress on Computational Mechanics, Los Angeles, CA, 2006.
A.K. Patra and V. Ramakkagari. “Goal oriented error estimates for adaptive Lagrangian simulation
of impact”, 6th US National Congress on Computational Mechanics, Dearborn, Michigan, 2001.

Relevant
Coursework

Computer Operating Systems, Computer Algorithms, Generic Programming, Computational Linear
Algebra, Numerical Solutions of ODEs, Numerical Solutions of PDEs, Introduction to Functional
Analysis, High Performance Computing

Honors and
Activities

• Regularly conduct training sessions on Data Structures and Algorithms, STL.
• Pune NX Recognition Award for Exemplary Contribution, Siemens PLM Software, Q3-Q4
2010.
• Service award, Department of Computer Science, RPI, 2006.
• Captain of the Computer Science Department intramural Soccer Team, Spring and Fall 2006.
• Reviewer, Applied Numerical Mathematics, an IMACS Journal, 2003, 2004.
• Graduate student secretary, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, UB, Fall
2001 and Spring 2002.

